# 12 Agile Principles

### 1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
Continuously deliever value faster.
Give something out of value every week.

### 2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development.
Welcome change.

### 3. Deliver working software frequently, with a preference to a shorter timescale.
Deliver **working** software frequently.
Something you can give the customer that works.

### 4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
Work together daily.

### 5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them what they need, and trust them to get the job done.
No project manager, no status reports.
Teams cross over roles.

### 6. The most efficient and effective method is face-to-face conversation.
Instead of documenting everything, have face-to-face meetings.

### 7. Working software is the primary measure of progress.
Work done = working software.

### 8. Agile processes promote sustainable development.
Maintain a constant pace.
It should not be stressful, instead it should be sustainable for all teams indefinetily.

### 9. Continuous attention to techincal excellence and good design enhances agility.
Technical excellence.
Think about quality as you make progress, to make it easier in the future.

### 10. Simplicity.
Make sure to bring lots of value to a few things instead of adding more and more things to build.
Think how simple the Google search is.
This makes it easier to bring more value faster.

### 11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
Self-organizing teams.
Have the right people with the right skillset in each team.
Instead of borrowing someone from another team.

### 12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.
Reflect and adjust.
You will learn new things from eachother all the time.
