# 20-24. Scrum Roles

## Overview

3 scrum roles:
1. Scrum master
2. Product owner
3. Developer team

## Scrum Master

- Assist the team in using Scrum.
- Removes roadblocks.

A scrum master want to know from the team: What did you do yesterday, what will you do today, and are there any roadblocks?

Rephrase as needed, but the goal is to assist and remove roadblocks.

Sprint reviews.
Ensure Scrum values are lived.
Facilitate Scrum ceremonies.
Meetings where everyone can give feedback openly.

## Product Owner

- Maximize value of the product.
- Make product decisions.

Some challenges: collaborate with all teams/customers.
Needs to be organized.
Needs to have a good sense of the end goal.

**MVP:** _Minimal Viable Product_ (what is the minimum we need to do to give the customer a valuable product).

## Developers

- Create solutions/features.
- Satisfy needs by bringing value.
- Cross-funcitonal.
- No manager supervising.

You have a primary role, but you are also involved in other tasks and roles
that is needed to collectivly reach the end goal.

## Updates

- `Development Team` is now `Developers` to make the Scrum Team feel more inclusive, rather than two different "teams".

- `Roles` are now referred to as `Accountabilities` so as to not prescribe titles roles, but rather tasks and accountabilities to enable the end result.

- Scrum Masters are no longer `Servant leaders` but are `True leaders`. This emphasizes now that the Scrum Master can lead from within to enable forward progress.

- Scrum Teams are now `Self-managing` rather than `Self-organizing`. Same concept here, just rewording to more clearly state how it is decided "who, how, and what to work on".

- Scrum Team now focuses on and iterates each Sprint toward the `Product Goal`, which provides the desired future state of the product.
