# 14. Binding to element properties

Instead of hardcoding a name, let's add a input field in which the user can provide a name.
We want to then bind this input's value to the `name` variable, so that it changes whenever the user types in a value in the input field.

Start by removing the `<button>` for changing the name, and replace it with a new `<input type="text">` element.
Also remove the now unused function `changeName`.

To display the value of `name` inside the input field, add `value="{name}"` to it as an attribute.
But how do we bind it so that the value of `name` changes to whatever the user types into the input field?

As we did with the `on:click` event listener, we will add the `on:input` event listener, which listens and runs a function every time we input something in this field.

Let's start by adding that function to be run every time the user inputs something.
Add a function to the script block called `nameInput` and define it like this:

```js
function nameInput(event) {
    const enteredValue = event.target.value
    name = enteredValue
}
```

The `event` parameter is an object returned by the event listener.
It contains information about the event (this is normal JS, not Svelte specific).
One thing we can extract from the event is the `target`.
This is the input field in this case, and from it we can extract the value and use it as `enteredValue`.
This is used to update the `name` variable.

Now add the event listener together with the function pointer, to the input field as an attribute: `on:input="{nameInput}"`.

Save and see that the name first displayed correctly on in the input field, because of `value="{name}"`.
The see that it changes dynamically to whatever the user inputs in the input field, because of `on:input="{nameInput}"`.
