# 59-74. Kanban

- Provides early and consistent value
- Collaborative and self-managing teams

## 4 basic principles

- Start with what you do now
- Agree to pursue incremental change
- Respect current process, roles responsibilities, and titles
- Encourage acts of leadership at all levels

## Board

| To do | Doing | Done |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| User story 1 | User story 2 | User story 3 |

Can be a physical board, or digital through a software.

The `To do` column contains work in priority order.
You pull work out of the `To do` column to work on, and put it in the `Doing` column.
When done, you put it in the `Done` column.

With physical cards on a physical board, some write who is assigned, when, and some comments on the back of the cards.

## Cards

The cards could contain all needed information related to the task.

Of course easier to include all info with digital cards, in contrary to physical cards.

## Six general practices of Kanban

- Visualize the workflow
- Limit work in progress (WIP) (focus on finishing tasks rather than starting)
- Manage flow (focus on managing the work, not people)
- Make policies explicit (up to the teams to decide the policies, so write them down)
- Implement feedback loops (don't forget about them)
- Collarborate for improvement, evolve experimentally (incorporate collaboration)

## Key metrics

- **Lead time**: the full time, from when the task was created and until it was fully done.
- **Cycle time**: from the time the task was started being worked on until it was fully done.

To long cycle times for example can indicate that you are not focused enough on one task at a time.

Physical boards makes it a bit hard to get these metrics, and that's why most teams use digital.

Some teams use a digital platform like Trello together with a Smart board (a physical touch screen).

## Some digital platforms including Kanban

- Trello (free & simple Kanban board)
- Jira (project board)
- GitHub (project board)

## Board statuses

### Basic:
- To do
- Doing
- Done

But you could use how many and what ever statuses you need as a team.
But you still have to think about what the key metrics mean to you with your statuses.

## Swimlanes

Grouping tasks together based on similarities.

Could be grouped in different ways:
- Based on department
- Based on title
- Based on responsibilities
- Based on priorities
- Anything really

On a physical board you can use lines separating tasks in groups.

Could be helpful to not feel overwhelmed with all tasks on a board.

## Steps to get started

1. Visualize your work
2. Limit work in progress
3. Adapt, monitor, and improve


## Conclusion

>Stop starting. Start finishing.
