# 30. Lists & keys

## Removing first & last card

Start by adding 2 buttons in the markup below the existing one:

```svelte
<button on:click={removeFirst}>Remove First</button>
<button on:click={removeLast}>Remove Last</button>
```

In the script block, add these `removeFirst` & `removeLast` functions:

```js
function removeFirst() {
    createdContacts = createdContacts.slice(1);
}

function removeLast() {
    createdContacts = createdContacts.slice(0, -1);
}
```

## Issues

There is an issue that can be seen if you add a new constant variable to the `ContactCard.svelte` file called `initialName`:

```js
const initalName = userName;
```

And display it in the markup next to the username:

```svelte
<h1>{userName} / {initialName}</h1>
```

If you name 3 cards uniquely and starts removing from the top, you'll see that the initial name is not matching the username on the cards anymore.

This has to do with how Svelte updates a list when you change it, specifically when you delete from it.

To Svelte, a list doesn't have any unique identifier by default referring to some item in the list.
Also, Svelte's default behavior of updating a list when you change it is from it's end, meaning if you delete any item from the list the last item will be deleted.

Svelte then use the data in the JS array to populate items with the data, and so the data is "correct" to some extent, but incorrect at parts.

It's like 2 different lists not matching anymore, since the markup list removes items from the bottom as default, but the data array could remove from anywhere.

## Solution: keys

We want the data array to be connected to the markup list by a unique identifier, which is set on each item.
This way Svelte will know what data is connected to what markup, and the issue will be no more.

Start by adding a unique `id` property to the added createdContact object in the `addContact` function:

```js
createdContacts = [
    ...createdContacts,
    {
        id: Math.random(), // add this property
        name: name,
        jobTitle: title,
        imageUrl: image,
        desc: description
    }
];
```

To connect this unique data key to the items of the markup list, the `each` block can be written like:

```svelte
{#each expression as name (key)}
    ...
{/each}
<!-- OR -->
{#each expression as name, index (key)}
    ...
{/each}
```

So modify the `each` block to:

```svelte
{#each createdContacts as contact, i (contact.id)}
```

NOTE: what we use as the unique key for every item could be anything that is unique to every item. In this case we used the `id` property.
But if we knew for example that the `name` property always would be unique, this could also be used as the key to solve the issue.

And that's all we need to do to fix the issue!
When you have confirmed it, you can remove the changes we added in the `ContactCard.svelte` file.
