# 177. Migrating the meetup project files

## Routes

The meetup project doesn't use any routes when going to different pages, so the URL is not updated.

This is something we need to fix and adjust for.

## Remove from the svelte-kit project

First of, remove the `about` & `blog` folders, and the `Nav.svelte` component.
Also only keep the `<svelte:head>` tag in `+page.svelte` file, and in the `+layout.svelte` file we only keep the `<main>` tag.

## `helpers` folder

Copy the `helpers` folder with it's files from the course project to the `src` folder of the svelte-kit project.

## `UI` folder

Copy the `UI` folder of the course project, and paste it inside the `lib/components` folder of the svelte-kit project.

## `Meetups` folder

Only `MeetupDetail` & `MeetupGrid` will be dedicated pages, so copy them from the course project and paste them to the `routes` folder of the svelte-kit project.

The rest of the components in the `Meetups` folder of the course project can be copied into a new folder called `Meetups` in the `lib/components` folder of the svelte-kit project.

Copy the `meetups-store.js` file and paste it directly to the `src` folder of the svelte-kit project.

## Merge `App.svelte` & `MeetupGrid.svelte`

The `+layout.svelte` file should include some parts from the `App.svelte` file:

**+layout.svelte**
```svelte
<script>
	import Header from '../lib/components/UI/Header.svelte'
</script>

<style>
	main {
        margin-top: 5rem;
    }
</style>

<Header />

<main>
	<slot></slot>
</main>
```

And for now, just copy over this part from `App.svelte` file to the `MeetupGrid.svelte` file of the svelte-kit project before all other markup:

**MeetupGrid.svelte**
```svelte
{#if editMode === 'edit'}
    <EditMeetup id={editedId} on:save={addMeetup} on:cancel={cancelEdit} />
{/if}
{#if isLoading}
    <LoadingSpinner />
{:else}
    <MeetupGrid
        meetups={$meetups}
        on:showdetails={showDetails}
        on:edit={startEdit}
        on:add={() => {editMode = 'edit'}}
    />
{/if}
```

We will fix the errors and file names later.
