# 109. Understanding readable stores

As the writable store, there is also a `readable` store.

You define and export it similarly to the writable store:

```js
export const readableStore = readable();
```

The `readable()` function takes 2 arguments: the default value (as with `writable()`), and a callback function from which you can update the store's value (it will give you a `set()` function as a variable, which you use to set the value of the store).

The `readable` store is not updatable outside this callback function, but you can only read it's value.
So you use this callback function on initialization to define how it should be updated, for example depending on a geo-location or
time:

```js
let count = 0;

export const timer = readable(0, (set) => {
    setInterval(() => {
        count++;
        set(count);
    }, 1000)
});
```

You should also define a clean-up function to the readable, to when you don't need it anymore.
You do this by returning a new function in the callback function, which Svelte will run as soon as this store is not needed anymore.
In this timer example, we need to clean-up the interval to not continue when the store is removed:

```js
let count = 0;

export const timer = readable(0, (set) => {
    const interval = setInterval(() => {
        count++;
        set(count);
    }, 1000)

    return () => {
        clearInterval(interval)
    }
});
```

Create a file inside the `src` folder, named `timer-store.js`, and add this timer store to it (don't forget to import `readable` from `svelte/store`).

Now let's use this in `App.svelte` & `Cart.svelte`, to log the timer store's value to the console:

**App.svelte**
```js
...
import { onDestroy } from 'svelte';
import { timer } from './timer-store.js';

...

const unsubscribe = timer.subscribe(count => {
    console.log('App: ' + count)
});

onDestroy(() => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
        unsubscribe();
    }
});
...
```

**Cart.svelte**
```js
...
import { onDestroy } from 'svelte';
import { timer } from '../timer-store.js';

const unsubscribe = timer.subscribe(count => {
    console.log('Cart: ' + count)
});

onDestroy(() => {
    if (unsubscribe) {
        unsubscribe();
    }
});
...
```

If you look in the console you'll see that both will be updated with the same value, since they are both getting that value from the same source.
Also notice that even if you toggle the cart back and forth, the count will continue to be in sync with what the app is outputting, since the store's value updates all the time.

## Pausing the time update when no one is listening

If you remove what we added in `App.svelte` to only log the timer store's value from the `Cart` component, you'll notice that when toggling off the cart the timer increment pauses, and then continues when the cart is displayed again.
The count will not be reset.

If you want the count to reset whenever no one is reading the value of the timer store, then add `count = 0;` to the returned function in the callback function of the timer's readable function:

```js
export const timer = readable(0, (set) => {
    const interval = setInterval(() => {
        count++;
        set(count);
    }, 1000)

    return () => {
        count = 0;
        clearInterval(interval)
    }
});
```

This will give you a hint into when this function is run by Svelte.
