# 5. Setting Up a First App & The Course Project

## How does Svelte work?

It's about building reactive User Interfaces in the Web.

You write out your code using the Svelte syntax and features, which is essentially `enhanced JS`.

You then use Svelte to compile it to vanilla JS, which is then deployed on production.

In the clients browser, the compiled JS code is downloaded, and executes/(re-)renders the User Interface.

## Course project

### IDE

Recommended IDE to work in is `Visual Studio Code` (`VSCode`).

When downloaded and installed, recommended extension to install to VSCode is the `Svelte` extension.

### Files and folders

The `package.json` file lists all the dependencies for this project. In here the `svelte` package is included, together with `rollup` (which watches if any files are changed and use Svelte to compile them, for example). It also include `sirv-cli` (which is used to run the application as if it was run on a server).

The `rollup.config.js` file is the configuration file for rollup.

The `src` folder is where the application code is written.

The `main.js` file is the first JS code that gets executed. It includes the `App.svelte` file, which is a Svelte file. All Svelte files can include 3 parts: the script block (logic), the style block (styling), and the HTML part (markup).

Back in the `main.js` file, we instantiate the App svelte component onto the single page `document.body` of our project.

The single page can be found in the `public` folder: the `index.html` file. It has some imports in the `<head>` tag, but not much more. The rest will be dynamically added by JS (compiled by Svelte).

The `global.css` file is where you can add some global `CSS` code (for styling).

### Node.js & npm

In order to run JS code outside the browser you'll need `Node.js`. Since Svelte compiles the code to JS code outside the browser, it depends on this tool (rollup also depends on Node.js).

When installed, Node.js also installs `npm` (`Node Package Manager`). This tool handles packages and dependencies in JS projects like this one (installing/updating the packages defined in the `package.json` file).

### Setup the project

After installing Node.js (and npm), open up a terminal (inside or outside of VSCode), navigate to this projects folder, and run:

```bash
npm install
```

This will setup the project by installing all the dependencies for this project.

A new `node_modules` folder is generated with all the packages that npm installed added to it. The new `package-lock.json` file is also generated, to ensure that the same dependencies are installed consistently across different environments.

### Run the application

In the `package.json` file, there is the `scripts` section which are commands that can be run by npm.

To run our app in a development environment, run:

```bash
npm run dev
```

In a browser, navigate to `http://localhost:5000` to view the app.

In the public folder a new `build` folder is added. These files are generated when compiling the Svelte code. Note that this is compiled for a development environment. For production it will be compiled to be even smaller and more efficient.

The files in the public folder is all the code that gets deployed on production, and at the end what the user will download.
