# 2. Why Svelte?

## Modern Web Applications

What problems does Svelte solve?

### Dynamic websites before

How was a modern web applications built 10 years ago?

You had some code written in some programming language like `PHP`, which talked to some servers, and handled requests sent to them.

It then responded with HTML files, which are downloaded and displayed in the browser.

### Dynamic websites now

Now we have more options for modern web applications.

We still need a backend, code that sits on the server.
But now we also have a frontend, code that sits in the browser.

The frontend talks to the backend to get data not available (or at least not securely available) on the browser.
That could be data from a database, which needs credentials not secured to be shared with the browser.
That's why we need the backend to take care of that.

The backend is also used for user authentication/verification, and heavy lifting tasks.

In the frontend, you want to do everything related to user interface.
It should be instant, a mobile-app-like behavior. No page (re-)loads.

The programming language to use in the frontend to have a reactive application is `JavaScript` (`JS`).

This type of application is called `Single Page Applications` (`SPA`).

This means that we have one single HTML file that gets downloaded, and then only the data on the page is dynamically changed via API calls to the server.

The `API` (`Application Programming Interface`) is part of the server, which then the frontend calls via URL endpoints through JS. They don't return HTML files, but typically JSON code (a language-independent data format).

This is how a lot of modern web applications are built now.
